 
 Mosiah 1
 Chapter 1
 
 Mosiah 1:1
  1 And now there was no more contention in all the land of
 Zarahemla, among all the people who belonged to king Benjamin, so
 that king Benjamin had continual peace all the remainder of his
 days.
 
 Mosiah 1:2
  2 And it came to pass that he had three sons; and he called
 their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and Helaman.  And he caused that
 they should be taught in all the language of his fathers, that
 thereby they might become men of understanding; and that they
 might know concerning the prophecies which had been spoken by the
 mouths of their fathers, which were delivered them by the hand of
 the Lord.
 
 Mosiah 1:3
  3 And he also taught them concerning the records which were
 engraven on the plates of brass, saying: My sons, I would that ye
 should remember that were it not for these plates, which contain
 these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in
 ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries
 of God.
 
 Mosiah 1:4
  4 For it were not possible that our father, Lehi, could have
 remembered all these things, to have taught them to his children,
 except it were for the help of these plates; for he having been
 taught in the language of the Egyptians therefore he could read
 these engravings, and teach them to his children, that thereby
 they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the
 commandments of God, even down to this present time.
 
 Mosiah 1:5
  5 I say unto you, my sons, were it not for these things, which
 have been kept and preserved by the hand of God, that we might
 read and understand of his mysteries, and have his commandments
 always before our eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled
 in unbelief, and we should have been like unto our brethren, the
 Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, or even do
 not believe them when they are taught them, because of the
 traditions of their fathers, which are not correct.
 
 Mosiah 1:6
  6 O my sons, I would that ye should remember that these sayings
 are true, and also that these records are true.  And behold, also
 the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and the sayings of
 our fathers from the time they left Jerusalem until now, and they
 are true; and we can know of their surety because we have them
 before our eyes.
 
 Mosiah 1:7
  7 And now, my sons, I would that ye should remember to search
 them diligently, that ye may profit thereby; and I would that ye
 should keep the commandments of God, that ye may prosper in the
 land according to the promises which the Lord made unto our
 fathers.
 
 Mosiah 1:8
  8 And many more things did king Benjamin teach his sons, which
 are not written in this book.
 
 Mosiah 1:9
  9 And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end
 of teaching his sons, that he waxed old, and he saw that he must
 very soon go the way of all the earth; therefore, he thought it
 expedient that he should confer the kingdom upon one of his sons.
 
 Mosiah 1:10
  10 Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before him; and these are
 the words which he spake unto him, saying: My son, I would that
 ye should make a proclamation throughout all this land among all
 this people, or the people of Zarahemla, and the people of Mosiah
 who dwell in the land, that thereby they may be gathered
 together; for on the morrow I shall proclaim unto this my people
 out of mine own mouth that thou art a king and a ruler over this
 people, whom the Lord our God hath given us.
 
 Mosiah 1:11
  11 And moreover, I shall give this people a name, that thereby
 they may be distinguished above all the people which the Lord God
 hath brought out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do because
 they have been a diligent people in keeping the commandments of
 the Lord.
 
 Mosiah 1:12
  12 And I give unto them a name that never shall be blotted out,
 except it be through transgression.
 
 Mosiah 1:13
  13 Yea, and moreover I say unto you, that if this highly favored
 people of the Lord should fall into transgression, and become a
 wicked and an adulterous people, that the Lord will deliver them
 up, that thereby they become weak like unto their brethren; and
 he will no more preserve them by his matchless and marvelous
 power, as he has hitherto preserved our fathers.
 
 Mosiah 1:14
  14 For I say unto you, that if he had not extended his arm in
 the preservation of our fathers they must have fallen into the
 hands of the Lamanites, and become victims to their hatred.
 
 Mosiah 1:15
  15 And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end
 of these sayings to his son, that he gave him charge concerning
 all the affairs of the kingdom.
 
 Mosiah 1:16
  16 And moreover, he also gave him charge concerning the records
 which were engraven on the plates of brass; and also the plates
 of Nephi; and also, the sword of Laban, and the ball or director,
 which led our fathers through the wilderness, which was prepared
 by the hand of the Lord that thereby they might be led, every one
 according to the heed and diligence which they gave unto him.
 
 Mosiah 1:17
  17 Therefore, as they were unfaithful they did not prosper nor
 progress in their journey, but were driven back, and incurred the
 displeasure of God upon them; and therefore they were smitten
 with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them up in remembrance
 of their duty.
 
 Mosiah 1:18
  18 And now, it came to pass that Mosiah went and did as his
 father had commanded him, and proclaimed unto all the people who
 were in the land of Zarahemla that thereby they might gather
 themselves together, to go up to the temple to hear the words
 which his father should speak unto them.
 
 Mosiah 2
 Chapter 2
 
 Mosiah 2:1
  1 And it came to pass that after Mosiah had done as his father
 had commanded him, and had made a proclamation throughout all the
 land, that the people gathered themselves together throughout all
 the land, that they might go up to the temple to hear the words
 which king Benjamin should speak unto them.
 
 Mosiah 2:2
  2 And there were a great number, even so many that they did not
 number them; for they had multiplied exceedingly and waxed great
 in the land.
 
 Mosiah 2:3
  3 And they also took of the firstlings of their flocks, that
 they might offer sacrifice and burnt offerings according to the
 law of Moses;
 
 Mosiah 2:4
  4 And also that they might give thanks to the Lord their God,
 who had brought them out of the land of Jerusalem, and who had
 delivered them out of the hands of their enemies, and had
 appointed just men to be their teachers, and also a just man to
 be their king, who had established peace in the land of
 Zarahemla, and who had taught them to keep the commandments of
 God, that they might rejoice and be filled with love towards God
 and all men.
 
 Mosiah 2:5
  5 And it came to pass that when they came up to the temple, they
 pitched their tents round about, every man according to his
 family, consisting of his wife, and his sons, and his daughters,
 and their sons, and their daughters, from the eldest down to the
 youngest, every family being separate one from another.
 
 Mosiah 2:6
  6 And they pitched their tents round about the temple, every man
 having his tent with the door thereof towards the temple, that
 thereby they might remain in their tents and hear the words which
 king Benjamin should speak unto them;
 
 Mosiah 2:7
  7 For the multitude being so great that king Benjamin could not
 teach them all within the walls of the temple, therefore he
 caused a tower to be erected, that thereby his people might hear
 the words which he should speak unto them.
 
 Mosiah 2:8
  8 And it came to pass that he began to speak to his people from
 the tower; and they could not all hear his words because of the
 greatness of the multitude; therefore he caused that the words
 which he spake should be written and sent forth among those that
 were not under the sound of his voice, that they might also
 receive his words.
 
 Mosiah 2:9
  9 And these are the words which he spake and caused to be
 written, saying: My brethren, all ye that have assembled
 yourselves together, you that can hear my words which I shall
 speak unto you this day; for I have not commanded you to come up
 hither to trifle with the words which I shall speak, but that you
 should hearken unto me, and open your ears that ye may hear, and
 your hearts that ye may understand, and your minds that the
 mysteries of God may be unfolded to your view.
 
 Mosiah 2:10
  10 I have not commanded you to come up hither that ye should
 fear me, or that ye should think that I of myself am more than a
 mortal man.
 
 Mosiah 2:11
  11 But I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of
 infirmities in body and mind; yet I have been chosen by this
 people, and consecrated by my father, and was suffered by the
 hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler and a king over this
 people; and have been kept and preserved by his matchless power,
 to serve you with all the might, mind and strength which the Lord
 hath granted unto me.
 
 Mosiah 2:12
  12 I say unto you that as I have been suffered to spend my days
 in your service, even up to this time, and have not sought gold
 nor silver nor any manner of riches of you;
 
 Mosiah 2:13
  13 Neither have I suffered that ye should be confined in
 dungeons, nor that ye should make slaves one of another, nor that
 ye should murder, or plunder, or steal, or commit adultery; nor
 even have I suffered that ye should commit any manner of
 wickedness, and have taught you that ye should keep the
 commandments of the Lord, in all things which he hath commanded
 you--
 
 Mosiah 2:14
  14 And even I, myself, have labored with mine own hands that I
 might serve you, and that ye should not be laden with taxes, and
 that there should nothing come upon you which was grievous to be
 borne--and of all these things which I have spoken, ye yourselves
 are witnesses this day.
 
 Mosiah 2:15
  15 Yet, my brethren, I have not done these things that I might
 boast, neither do I tell these things that thereby I might accuse
 you; but I tell you these things that ye may know that I can
 answer a clear conscience before God this day.
 
 Mosiah 2:16
  16 Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I
 had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for
 I have only been in the service of God.
 
 Mosiah 2:17
  17 And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom;
 that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow
 beings ye are only in the service of your God.
 
 Mosiah 2:18
  18 Behold, ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye call
 your king, do labor to serve you, then ought not ye to labor to
 serve one another?
 
 Mosiah 2:19
  19 And behold also, if I, whom ye call your king, who has spent
 his days in your service, and yet has been in the service of God,
 do merit any thanks from you, O how you ought to thank your
 heavenly King!
 
 Mosiah 2:20
  20 I say unto you, my brethren, that if you should render all
 the thanks and praise which your whole soul has power to possess,
 to that God who has created you, and has kept and preserved you,
 and has caused that ye should rejoice, and has granted that ye
 should live in peace one with another--
 
 Mosiah 2:21
  21 I say unto you that if ye should serve him who has created
 you from the beginning, and is preserving you from day to day, by
 lending you breath, that ye may live and move and do according to
 your own will, and even supporting you from one moment to
 another--I say, if ye should serve him with all your whole souls
 yet ye would be unprofitable servants.
 
 Mosiah 2:22
  22 And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his
 commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his
 commandments ye should prosper in the land; and he never doth
 vary from that which he hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his
 commandments he doth bless you and prosper you.
 
 Mosiah 2:23
  23 And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and granted
 unto you your lives, for which ye are indebted unto him.
 
 Mosiah 2:24
  24 And secondly, he doth require that ye should do as he hath
 commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you;
 and therefore he hath paid you.  And ye are still indebted unto
 him, and are, and will be, forever and ever; therefore, of what
 have ye to boast?
 
 Mosiah 2:25
  25 And now I ask, can ye say aught of yourselves?  I answer you,
 Nay.  Ye cannot say that ye are even as much as the dust of the
 earth; yet ye were created of the dust of the earth; but behold,
 it belongeth to him who created you.
 
 Mosiah 2:26
  26 And I, even I, whom ye call your king, am no better than ye
 yourselves are; for I am also of the dust.  And ye behold that I
 am old, and am about to yield up this mortal frame to its mother
 earth.
 
 Mosiah 2:27
  27 Therefore, as I said unto you that I had served you, walking
 with a clear conscience before God, even so I at this time have
 caused that ye should assemble yourselves together, that I might
 be found blameless, and that your blood should not come upon me,
 when I shall stand to be judged of God of the things whereof he
 hath commanded me concerning you.
 
 Mosiah 2:28
  28 I say unto you that I have caused that ye should assemble
 yourselves together that I might rid my garments of your blood,
 at this period of time when I am about to go down to my grave,
 that I might go down in peace, and my immortal spirit may join
 the choirs above in singing the praises of a just God.
 
 Mosiah 2:29
  29 And moreover, I say unto you that I have caused that ye
 should assemble yourselves together, that I might declare unto
 you that I can no longer be your teacher, nor your king;
 
 Mosiah 2:30
  30 For even at this time, my whole frame doth tremble
 exceedingly while attempting to speak unto you; but the Lord God
 doth support me, and hath suffered me that I should speak unto
 you, and hath commanded me that I should declare unto you this
 day, that my son Mosiah is a king and a ruler over you.
 
 Mosiah 2:31
  31 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should do as ye have
 hitherto done.  As ye have kept my commandments, and also the
 commandments of my father, and have prospered, and have been kept
 from falling into the hands of your enemies, even so if ye shall
 keep the commandments of my son, or the commandments of God which
 shall be delivered unto you by him, ye shall prosper in the land,
 and your enemies shall have no power over you.
 
 Mosiah 2:32
  32 But, O my people, beware lest there shall arise contentions
 among you, and ye list to obey the evil spirit, which was spoken
 of by my father Mosiah.
 
 Mosiah 2:33
  33 For behold, there is a wo pronounced upon him who listeth to
 obey that spirit; for if he listeth to obey him, and remaineth
 and dieth in his sins, the same drinketh damnation to his own
 soul; for he receiveth for his wages an everlasting punishment,
 having transgressed the law of God contrary to his own knowledge.
 
 Mosiah 2:34
  34 I say unto you, that there are not any among you, except it
 be your little children that have not been taught concerning
 these things, but what knoweth that ye are eternally indebted to
 your heavenly Father, to render to him all that you have and are;
 and also have been taught concerning the records which contain
 the prophecies which have been spoken by the holy prophets, even
 down to the time our father, Lehi, left Jerusalem;
 
 Mosiah 2:35
  35 And also, all that has been spoken by our fathers until now. 
 And behold, also, they spake that which was commanded them of the
 Lord; therefore, they are just and true.
 
 Mosiah 2:36
  36 And now, I say unto you, my brethren, that after ye have
 known and have been taught all these things, if ye should
 transgress and go contrary to that which has been spoken, that ye
 do withdraw yourselves from the Spirit of the Lord, that it may
 have no place in you to guide you in wisdom's paths that ye may
 be blessed, prospered, and preserved--
 
 Mosiah 2:37
  37 I say unto you, that the man that doeth this, the same cometh
 out in open rebellion against God; therefore he listeth to obey
 the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all righteousness;
 therefore, the Lord has no place in him, for he dwelleth not in
 unholy temples.
 
 Mosiah 2:38
  38 Therefore if that man repenteth not, and remaineth and dieth
 an enemy to God, the demands of divine justice do awaken his
 immortal soul to a lively sense of his own guilt, which doth
 cause him to shrink from the presence of the Lord, and doth fill
 his breast with guilt, and pain, and anguish, which is like an
 unquenchable fire, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever.
 
 Mosiah 2:39
  39 And now I say unto you, that mercy hath no claim on that man;
 therefore his final doom is to endure a never-ending torment.
 
 Mosiah 2:40
  40 O, all ye old men, and also ye young men, and you little
 children who can understand my words, for I have spoken plainly
 unto you that ye might understand, I pray that ye should awake to
 a remembrance of the awful situation of those that have fallen
 into transgression.
 
 Mosiah 2:41
  41 And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the
 blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of
 God.  For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal
 and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are
 received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a
 state of never-ending happiness.  O remember, remember that these
 things are true; for the Lord God hath spoken it.
 
 Mosiah 3
 Chapter 3
 
 Mosiah 3:1
  1 And again my brethren, I would call your attention, for I have
 somewhat more to speak unto you; for behold, I have things to
 tell you concerning that which is to come.
 
 Mosiah 3:2
  2 And the things which I shall tell you are made known unto me
 by an angel from God.  And he said unto me: Awake; and I awoke,
 and behold he stood before me.
 
 Mosiah 3:3
  3 And he said unto me: Awake, and hear the words which I shall
 tell thee; for behold, I am come to declare unto you the glad
 tidings of great joy.
 
 Mosiah 3:4
  4 For the Lord hath heard thy prayers, and hath judged of thy
 righteousness, and hath sent me to declare unto thee that thou
 mayest rejoice; and that thou mayest declare unto thy people,
 that they may also be filled with joy.
 
 Mosiah 3:5
  5 For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with
 power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all
 eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the
 children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and
 shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as
 healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the
 blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing
 all manner of diseases.
 
 Mosiah 3:6
  6 And he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell
 in the hearts of the children of men.
 
 Mosiah 3:7
  7 And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger,
 thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be
 unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great
 shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of
 his people.
 
 Mosiah 3:8
  8 And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the
 Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the
 beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary.
 
 Mosiah 3:9
  9 And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation might come unto
 the children of men even through faith on his name; and even
 after all this they shall consider him a man, and say that he
 hath a devil, and shall scourge him, and shall crucify him.
 
 Mosiah 3:10
  10 And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and behold, he
 standeth to judge the world; and behold, all these things are
 done that a righteous judgment might come upon the children of
 men.
 
 Mosiah 3:11
  11 For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the sins of those
 who have fallen by the transgression of Adam, who have died not
 knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly
 sinned.
 
 Mosiah 3:12
  12 But wo, wo unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth against
 God!  For salvation cometh to none such except it be through
 repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.
 
 Mosiah 3:13
  13 And the Lord God hath sent his holy prophets among all the
 children of men, to declare these things to every kindred,
 nation, and tongue, that thereby whosoever should believe that
 Christ should come, the same might receive remission of their
 sins, and rejoice with exceedingly great joy, even as though he
 had already come among them.
 
 Mosiah 3:14
  14 Yet the Lord God saw that his people were a stiffnecked
 people, and he appointed unto them a law, even the law of Moses.
 
 Mosiah 3:15
  15 And many signs, and wonders, and types, and shadows showed he
 unto them, concerning his coming; and also holy prophets spake
 unto them concerning his coming; and yet they hardened their
 hearts, and understood not that the law of Moses availeth nothing
 except it were through the atonement of his blood.
 
 Mosiah 3:16
  16 And even if it were possible that little children could sin
 they could not be saved; but I say unto you they are blessed; for
 behold, as in Adam, or by nature, they fall, even so the blood of
 Christ atoneth for their sins.
 
 Mosiah 3:17
  17 And moreover, I say unto you, that there shall be no other
 name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come
 unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ,
 the Lord Omnipotent.
 
 Mosiah 3:18
  18 For behold he judgeth, and his judgment is just; and the
 infant perisheth not that dieth in his infancy; but men drink
 damnation to their own souls except they humble themselves and
 become as little children, and believe that salvation was, and
 is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ,
 the Lord Omnipotent.
 
 Mosiah 3:19
  19 For the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the
 fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to
 the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man
 and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord,
 and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full
 of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit
 to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father.
 
 Mosiah 3:20
  20 And moreover, I say unto you, that the time shall come when
 the knowledge of the Savior shall spread throughout every nation,
 kindred, tongue, and people.
 
 Mosiah 3:21
  21 And behold, when that time cometh, none shall be found
 blameless before God, except it be little children, only through
 repentance and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent.
 
 Mosiah 3:22
  22 And even at this time, when thou shalt have taught thy people
 the things which the Lord thy God hath commanded thee, even then
 are they found no more blameless in the sight of God, only
 according to the words which I have spoken unto thee.
 
 Mosiah 3:23
  23 And now I have spoken the words which the Lord God hath
 commanded me.
 
 Mosiah 3:24
  24 And thus saith the Lord: They shall stand as a bright
 testimony against this people, at the judgment day; whereof they
 shall be judged, every man according to his works, whether they
 be good, or whether they be evil.
 
 Mosiah 3:25
  25 And if they be evil they are consigned to an awful view of
 their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them to shrink
 from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery and endless
 torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore they have
 drunk damnation to their own souls.
 
 Mosiah 3:26
  26 Therefore, they have drunk out of the cup of the wrath of
 God, which justice could no more deny unto them than it could
 deny that Adam should fall because of his partaking of the
 forbidden fruit; therefore, mercy could have claim on them no
 more forever.
 
 Mosiah 3:27
  27 And their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose
 flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and
 ever.  Thus hath the Lord commanded me.  Amen.
 
 Mosiah 4
 Chapter 4
 
 Mosiah 4:1
  1 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an
 end of speaking the words which had been delivered unto him by
 the angel of the Lord, that he cast his eyes round about on the
 multitude, and behold they had fallen to the earth, for the fear
 of the Lord had come upon them.
 
 Mosiah 4:2
  2 And they had viewed themselves in their own carnal state, even
 less than the dust of the earth.  And they all cried aloud with
 one voice, saying: O have mercy, and apply the atoning blood of
 Christ that we may receive forgiveness of our sins, and our
 hearts may be purified; for we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son
 of God, who created heaven and earth, and all things; who shall
 come down among the children of men.
 
 Mosiah 4:3
  3 And it came to pass that after they had spoken these words the
 Spirit of the Lord came upon them, and they were filled with joy,
 having received a remission of their sins, and having peace of
 conscience, because of the exceeding faith which they had in
 Jesus Christ who should come, according to the words which king
 Benjamin had spoken unto them.
 
 Mosiah 4:4
  4 And king Benjamin again opened his mouth and began to speak
 unto them, saying: My friends and my brethren, my kindred and my
 people, I would again call your attention, that ye may hear and
 understand the remainder of my words which I shall speak unto
 you.
 
 Mosiah 4:5
  5 For behold, if the knowledge of the goodness of God at this
 time has awakened you to a sense of your nothingness, and your
 worthless and fallen state--
 
 Mosiah 4:6
  6 I say unto you, if ye have come to a knowledge of the goodness
 of God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom, and his
 patience, and his long-suffering towards the children of men; and
 also, the atonement which has been prepared from the foundation
 of the world, that thereby salvation might come to him that
 should put his trust in the Lord, and should be diligent in
 keeping his commandments, and continue in the faith even unto the
 end of his life, I mean the life of the mortal body--
 
 Mosiah 4:7
  7 I say, that this is the man who receiveth salvation, through
 the atonement which was prepared from the foundation of the world
 for all mankind, which ever were since the fall of Adam, or who
 are, or who ever shall be, even unto the end of the world.
 
 Mosiah 4:8
  8 And this is the means whereby salvation cometh.  And there is
 none other salvation save this which hath been spoken of; neither
 are there any conditions whereby man can be saved except the
 conditions which I have told you.
 
 Mosiah 4:9
  9 Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all
 things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all
 wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that
 man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can
 comprehend.
 
 Mosiah 4:10
  10 And again, believe that ye must repent of your sins and
 forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in
 sincerity of heart that he would forgive you; and now, if you
 believe all these things see that ye do them.
 
 Mosiah 4:11
  11 And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye
 have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have
 known of his goodness and have tasted of his love, and have
 received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceedingly
 great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember,
 and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your
 own nothingness, and his goodness and long-suffering towards you,
 unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of
 humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing
 steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was
 spoken by the mouth of the angel.
 
 Mosiah 4:12
  12 And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always
 rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a
 remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the
 glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which
 is just and true.
 
 Mosiah 4:13
  13 And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to
 live peaceably, and to render to every man according to that
 which is his due.
 
 Mosiah 4:14
  14 And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or
 naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of
 God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil,
 who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath
 been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all
 righteousness.
 
 Mosiah 4:15
  15 But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and
 soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve
 one another.
 
 Mosiah 4:16
  16 And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need
 of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him
 that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar
 putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to
 perish.
 
 Mosiah 4:17
  17 Perhaps thou shalt say: The man has brought upon himself his
 misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him
 of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not
 suffer, for his punishments are just--
 
 Mosiah 4:18
  18 But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath
 great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he
 hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the
 kingdom of God.
 
 Mosiah 4:19
  19 For behold, are we not all beggars?  Do we not all depend
 upon the same Being, even God, for all the substance which we
 have, for both food and raiment, and for gold, and for silver,
 and for all the riches which we have of every kind?
 
 Mosiah 4:20
  20 And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on his
 name, and begging for a remission of your sins.  And has he
 suffered that ye have begged in vain?  Nay; he has poured out his
 Spirit upon you, and has caused that your hearts should be filled
 with joy, and has caused that your mouths should be stopped that
 ye could not find utterance, so exceedingly great was your joy.
 
 Mosiah 4:21
  21 And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are
 dependent for your lives and for all that ye have and are, doth
 grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith,
 believing that ye shall receive, O then, how ye ought to impart
 of the substance that ye have one to another.
 
 Mosiah 4:22
  22 And if ye judge the man who putteth up his petition to you
 for your substance that he perish not, and condemn him, how much
 more just will be your condemnation for withholding your
 substance, which doth not belong to you but to God, to whom also
 your life belongeth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of
 the thing which thou hast done.
 
 Mosiah 4:23
  23 I say unto you, wo be unto that man, for his substance shall
 perish with him; and now, I say these things unto those who are
 rich as pertaining to the things of this world.
 
 Mosiah 4:24
  24 And again, I say unto the poor, ye who have not and yet have
 sufficient, that ye remain from day to day; I mean all you who
 deny the beggar, because ye have not; I would that ye say in your
 hearts that: I give not because I have not, but if I had I would
 give.
 
 Mosiah 4:25
  25 And now, if ye say this in your hearts ye remain guiltless,
 otherwise ye are condemned; and your condemnation is just for ye
 covet that which ye have not received.
 
 Mosiah 4:26
  26 And now, for the sake of these things which I have spoken
 unto you--that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your
 sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God--I
 would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every
 man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry,
 clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their
 relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their
 wants.
 
 Mosiah 4:27
  27 And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order;
 for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has
 strength.  And again, it is expedient that he should be diligent,
 that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must
 be done in order.
 
 Mosiah 4:28
  28 And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you
 borroweth of his neighbor should return the thing that he
 borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt commit
 sin; and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit sin
 also.
 
 Mosiah 4:29
  29 And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may
 commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many
 that I cannot number them.
 
 Mosiah 4:30
  30 But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch
 yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds,
 and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith of
 what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto
 the end of your lives, ye must perish.  And now, O man, remember,
 and perish not.
 
 Mosiah 5
 Chapter 5
 
 Mosiah 5:1
  1 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had thus
 spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to know of his
 people if they believed the words which he had spoken unto them.
 
 Mosiah 5:2
  2 And they all cried with one voice, saying: Yea, we believe all
 the words which thou hast spoken unto us; and also, we know of
 their surety and truth, because of the Spirit of the Lord
 Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty change in us, or in our
 hearts, that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do
 good continually.
 
 Mosiah 5:3
  3 And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite goodness of God,
 and the manifestations of his Spirit, have great views of that
 which is to come; and were it expedient, we could prophesy of all
 things.
 
 Mosiah 5:4
  4 And it is the faith which we have had on the things which our
 king has spoken unto us that has brought us to this great
 knowledge, whereby we do rejoice with such exceedingly great joy.
 
 Mosiah 5:5
  5 And we are willing to enter into a covenant with our God to do
 his will, and to be obedient to his commandments in all things
 that he shall command us, all the remainder of our days, that we
 may not bring upon ourselves a never-ending torment, as has been
 spoken by the angel, that we may not drink out of the cup of the
 wrath of God.
 
 Mosiah 5:6
  6 And now, these are the words which king Benjamin desired of
 them; and therefore he said unto them: Ye have spoken the words
 that I desired; and the covenant which ye have made is a
 righteous covenant.
 
 Mosiah 5:7
  7 And now, because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall
 be called the children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters;
 for behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say
 that your hearts are changed through faith on his name;
 therefore, ye are born of him and have become his sons and his
 daughters.
 
 Mosiah 5:8
  8 And under this head ye are made free, and there is no other
 head whereby ye can be made free.  There is no other name given
 whereby salvation cometh; therefore, I would that ye should take
 upon you the name of Christ, all you that have entered into the
 covenant with God that ye should be obedient unto the end of your
 lives.
 
 Mosiah 5:9
  9 And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this shall be
 found at the right hand of God, for he shall know the name by
 which he is called; for he shall be called by the name of Christ.
 
 Mosiah 5:10
  10 And now it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall not take
 upon him the name of Christ must be called by some other name;
 therefore, he findeth himself on the left hand of God.
 
 Mosiah 5:11
  11 And I would that ye should remember also, that this is the
 name that I said I should give unto you that never should be
 blotted out, except it be through transgression; therefore, take
 heed that ye do not transgress, that the name be not blotted out
 of your hearts.
 
 Mosiah 5:12
  12 I say unto you, I would that ye should remember to retain the
 name written always in your hearts, that ye are not found on the
 left hand of God, but that ye hear and know the voice by which ye
 shall be called, and also, the name by which he shall call you.
 
 Mosiah 5:13
  13 For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and
 who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and
 intents of his heart?
 
 Mosiah 5:14
  14 And again, doth a man take an ass which belongeth to his
 neighbor, and keep him?  I say unto you, Nay; he will not even
 suffer that he shall feed among his flocks, but will drive him
 away, and cast him out.  I say unto you, that even so shall it be
 among you if ye know not the name by which ye are called.
 
 Mosiah 5:15
  15 Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable,
 always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God
 Omnipotent, may seal you his, that you may be brought to heaven,
 that ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life, through
 the wisdom, and power, and justice, and mercy of him who created
 all things, in heaven and in earth, who is God above all.  Amen.
 
 Mosiah 6
 Chapter 6
 
 Mosiah 6:1
  1 And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, after having
 finished speaking to the people, that he should take the names of
 all those who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his
 commandments.
 
 Mosiah 6:2
  2 And it came to pass that there was not one soul, except it
 were little children, but who had entered into the covenant and
 had taken upon them the name of Christ.
 
 Mosiah 6:3
  3 And again, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an
 end of all these things, and had consecrated his son Mosiah to be
 a ruler and a king over his people, and had given him all the
 charges concerning the kingdom, and also had appointed priests to
 teach the people, that thereby they might hear and know the
 commandments of God, and to stir them up in remembrance of the
 oath which they had made, he dismissed the multitude, and they
 returned, every one, according to their families, to their own
 houses.
 
 Mosiah 6:4
  4 And Mosiah began to reign in his father's stead.  And he began
 to reign in the thirtieth year of his age, making in the whole,
 about four hundred and seventy-six years from the time that Lehi
 left Jerusalem.
 
 Mosiah 6:5
  5 And king Benjamin lived three years and he died.
 
 Mosiah 6:6
  6 And it came to pass that king Mosiah did walk in the ways of
 the Lord, and did observe his judgments and his statutes, and did
 keep his commandments in all things whatsoever he commanded him.
 
 Mosiah 6:7
  7 And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till the
 earth.  And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he
 might not become burdensome to his people, that he might do
 according to that which his father had done in all things.  And
 there was no contention among all his people for the space of
 three years.
 
 Mosiah 7
 Chapter 7
 
 Mosiah 7:1
  1 And now, it came to pass that after king Mosiah had had
 continual peace for the space of three years, he was desirous to
 know concerning the people who went up to dwell in the land of
 Lehi-Nephi, or in the city of Lehi-Nephi; for his people had
 heard nothing from them from the time they left the land of
 Zarahemla; therefore, they wearied him with their teasings.
 
 Mosiah 7:2
  2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted that sixteen of
 their strong men might go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi to inquire
 concerning their brethren.
 
 Mosiah 7:3
  3 And it came to pass that on the morrow they started to go up,
 having with them one Ammon, he being a strong and mighty man, and
 a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was also their leader.
 
 Mosiah 7:4
  4 And now, they knew not the course they should travel in the
 wilderness to go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi; therefore they
 wandered many days in the wilderness, even forty days did they
 wander.
 
 Mosiah 7:5
  5 And when they had wandered forty days they came to a hill,
 which is north of the land of Shilom, and there they pitched
 their tents.
 
 Mosiah 7:6
  6 And Ammon took three of his brethren, and their names were
 Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, and they went down into the land of
 Nephi.
 
 Mosiah 7:7
  7 And behold, they met the king of the people who were in the
 land of Nephi, and in the land of Shilom; and they were
 surrounded by the king's guard, and were taken, and were bound,
 and were committed to prison.
 
 Mosiah 7:8
  8 And it came to pass when they had been in prison two days they
 were again brought before the king, and their bands were loosed;
 and they stood before the king, and were permitted, or rather
 commanded, that they should answer the questions which he should
 ask them.
 
 Mosiah 7:9
  9 And he said unto them: Behold, I am Limhi, the son of Noah,
 who was the son of Zeniff, who came up out of the land of
 Zarahemla to inherit this land, which was the land of their
 fathers, who was made a king by the voice of the people.
 
 Mosiah 7:10
  10 And now, I desire to know the cause whereby ye were so bold
 as to come near the walls of the city, when I, myself, was with
 my guards without the gate?
 
 Mosiah 7:11
  11 And now, for this cause have I suffered that ye should be
 preserved, that I might inquire of you, or else I should have
 caused that my guards should have put you to death.  Ye are
 permitted to speak.
 
 Mosiah 7:12
  12 And now, when Ammon saw that he was permitted to speak, he
 went forth and bowed himself before the king; and rising again he
 said: O king, I am very thankful before God this day that I am
 yet alive, and am permitted to speak; and I will endeavor to
 speak with boldness;
 
 Mosiah 7:13
  13 For I am assured that if ye had known me ye would not have
 suffered that I should have worn these bands.  For I am Ammon,
 and am a descendant of Zarahemla, and have come up out of the
 land of Zarahemla to inquire concerning our brethren, whom Zeniff
 brought up out of that land.
 
 Mosiah 7:14
  14 And now, it came to pass that after Limhi had heard the words
 of Ammon, he was exceedingly glad, and said: Now, I know of a
 surety that my brethren who were in the land of Zarahemla are yet
 alive.  And now, I will rejoice; and on the morrow I will cause
 that my people shall rejoice also.
 
 Mosiah 7:15
  15 For behold, we are in bondage to the Lamanites, and are taxed
 with a tax which is grievous to be borne.  And now, behold, our
 brethren will deliver us out of our bondage, or out of the hands
 of the Lamanites, and we will be their slaves; for it is better
 that we be slaves to the Nephites than to pay tribute to the king
 of the Lamanites.
 
 Mosiah 7:16
  16 And now, king Limhi commanded his guards that they should no
 more bind Ammon nor his brethren, but caused that they should go
 to the hill which was north of Shilom, and bring their brethren
 into the city, that thereby they might eat, and drink, and rest
 themselves from the labors of their journey; for they had
 suffered many things; they had suffered hunger, thirst, and
 fatigue.
 
 Mosiah 7:17
  17 And now, it came to pass on the morrow that king Limhi sent a
 proclamation among all his people, that thereby they might gather
 themselves together to the temple to hear the words which he
 should speak unto them.
 
 Mosiah 7:18
  18 And it came to pass that when they had gathered themselves
 together that he spake unto them in this wise, saying: O ye, my
 people, lift up your heads and be comforted; for behold, the time
 is at hand, or is not far distant, when we shall no longer be in
 subjection to our enemies, notwithstanding our many strugglings,
 which have been in vain; yet I trust there remaineth an effectual
 struggle to be made.
 
 Mosiah 7:19
  19 Therefore, lift up your heads, and rejoice, and put your
 trust in God, in that God who was the God of Abraham, and Isaac,
 and Jacob; and also, that God who brought the children of Israel
 out of the land of Egypt, and caused that they should walk
 through the Red Sea on dry ground, and fed them with manna that
 they might not perish in the wilderness; and many more things did
 he do for them.
 
 Mosiah 7:20
  20 And again, that same God has brought our fathers out of the
 land of Jerusalem, and has kept and preserved his people even
 until now; and behold, it is because of our iniquities and
 abominations that he has brought us into bondage.
 
 Mosiah 7:21
  21 And ye all are witnesses this day, that Zeniff, who was made
 king over this people, he being over-zealous to inherit the land
 of his fathers, therefore being deceived by the cunning and
 craftiness of king Laman, who having entered into a treaty with
 king Zeniff, and having yielded up into his hands the possessions
 of a part of the land, or even the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the
 city of Shilom; and the land round about--
 
 Mosiah 7:22
  22 And all this he did, for the sole purpose of bringing this
 people into subjection or into bondage.  And behold, we at this
 time do pay tribute to the king of the Lamanites, to the amount
 of one half of our corn, and our barley, and even all our grain
 of every kind, and one half of the increase of our flocks and our
 herds; and even one half of all we have or possess the king of
 the Lamanites doth exact of us, or our lives.
 
 Mosiah 7:23
  23 And now, is not this grievous to be borne?  And is not this,
 our affliction, great?  Now behold, how great reason we have to
 mourn.
 
 Mosiah 7:24
  24 Yea, I say unto you, great are the reasons which we have to
 mourn; for behold how many of our brethren have been slain, and
 their blood has been spilt in vain, and all because of iniquity.
 
 Mosiah 7:25
  25 For if this people had not fallen into transgression the Lord
 would not have suffered that this great evil should come upon
 them.  But behold, they would not hearken unto his words; but
 there arose contentions among them, even so much that they did
 shed blood among themselves.
 
 Mosiah 7:26
  26 And a prophet of the Lord have they slain; yea, a chosen man
 of God, who told them of their wickedness and abominations, and
 prophesied of many things which are to come, yea, even the coming
 of Christ.
 
 Mosiah 7:27
  27 And because he said unto them that Christ was the God, the
 Father of all things, and said that he should take upon him the
 image of man, and it should be the image after which man was
 created in the beginning; or in other words, he said that man was
 created after the image of God, and that God should come down
 among the children of men, and take upon him flesh and blood, and
 go forth upon the face of the earth--
 
 Mosiah 7:28
  28 And now, because he said this, they did put him to death; and
 many more things did they do which brought down the wrath of God
 upon them.  Therefore, who wondereth that they are in bondage,
 and that they are smitten with sore afflictions?
 
 Mosiah 7:29
  29 For behold, the Lord hath said: I will not succor my people
 in the day of their transgression; but I will hedge up their ways
 that they prosper not; and their doings shall be as a stumbling
 block before them.
 
 Mosiah 7:30
  30 And again, he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they
 shall reap the chaff thereof in the whirlwind; and the effect
 thereof is poison.
 
 Mosiah 7:31
  31 And again he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they
 shall reap the east wind, which bringeth immediate destruction.
 
 Mosiah 7:32
  32 And now, behold, the promise of the Lord is fulfilled, and ye
 are smitten and afflicted.
 
 Mosiah 7:33
  33 But if ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart,
 and put your trust in him, and serve him with all diligence of
 mind, if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and
 pleasure, deliver you out of bondage.
 
 Mosiah 8
 Chapter 8
 
 Mosiah 8:1
  1 And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of
 speaking to his people, for he spake many things unto them and
 only a few of them have I written in this book, he told his
 people all the things concerning their brethren who were in the
 land of Zarahemla.
 
 Mosiah 8:2
  2 And he caused that Ammon should stand up before the multitude,
 and rehearse unto them all that had happened unto their brethren
 from the time that Zeniff went up out of the land even until the
 time that he himself came up out of the land.
 
 Mosiah 8:3
  3 And he also rehearsed unto them the last words which king
 Benjamin had taught them, and explained them to the people of
 king Limhi, so that they might understand all the words which he
 spake.
 
 Mosiah 8:4
  4 And it came to pass that after he had done all this, that king
 Limhi dismissed the multitude, and caused that they should return
 every one unto his own house.
 
 Mosiah 8:5
  5 And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which
 contained the record of his people from the time that they left
 the land of Zarahemla, should be brought before Ammon, that he
 might read them.
 
 Mosiah 8:6
  6 Now, as soon as Ammon had read the record, the king inquired
 of him to know if he could interpret languages, and Ammon told
 him that he could not.
 
 Mosiah 8:7
  7 And the king said unto him: Being grieved for the afflictions
 of my people, I caused that forty and three of my people should
 take a journey into the wilderness, that thereby they might find
 the land of Zarahemla, that we might appeal unto our brethren to
 deliver us out of bondage.
 
 Mosiah 8:8
  8 And they were lost in the wilderness for the space of many
 days, yet they were diligent, and found not the land of Zarahemla
 but returned to this land, having traveled in a land among many
 waters, having discovered a land which was covered with bones of
 men, and of beasts, and was also covered with ruins of buildings
 of every kind, having discovered a land which had been peopled
 with a people who were as numerous as the hosts of Israel.
 
 Mosiah 8:9
  9 And for a testimony that the things that they had said are
 true they have brought twenty-four plates which are filled with
 engravings, and they are of pure gold.
 
 Mosiah 8:10
  10 And behold, also, they have brought breastplates, which are
 large, and they are of brass and of copper, and are perfectly
 sound.
 
 Mosiah 8:11
  11 And again, they have brought swords, the hilts thereof have
 perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and
 there is no one in the land that is able to interpret the
 language or the engravings that are on the plates.  Therefore I
 said unto thee: Canst thou translate?
 
 Mosiah 8:12
  12 And I say unto thee again: Knowest thou of any one that can
 translate?  For I am desirous that these records should be
 translated into our language; for, perhaps, they will give us a
 knowledge of a remnant of the people who have been destroyed,
 from whence these records came; or, perhaps, they will give us a
 knowledge of this very people who have been destroyed; and I am
 desirous to know the cause of their destruction.
 
 Mosiah 8:13
  13 Now Ammon said unto him: I can assuredly tell thee, O king,
 of a man that can translate the records; for he has wherewith
 that he can look, and translate all records that are of ancient
 date; and it is a gift from God.  And the things are called
 interpreters, and no man can look in them except he be commanded,
 lest he should look for that he ought not and he should perish. 
 And whosoever is commanded to look in them, the same is called
 seer.
 
 Mosiah 8:14
  14 And behold, the king of the people who are in the land of
 Zarahemla is the man that is commanded to do these things, and
 who has this high gift from God.
 
 Mosiah 8:15
  15 And the king said that a seer is greater than a prophet.
 
 Mosiah 8:16
  16 And Ammon said that a seer is a revelator and a prophet also;
 and a gift which is greater can no man have, except he should
 possess the power of God, which no man can; yet a man may have
 great power given him from God.
 
 Mosiah 8:17
  17 But a seer can know of things which are past, and also of
 things which are to come, and by them shall all things be
 revealed, or, rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and
 hidden things shall come to light, and things which are not known
 shall be made known by them, and also things shall be made known
 by them which otherwise could not be known.
 
 Mosiah 8:18
  18 Thus God has provided a means that man, through faith, might
 work mighty miracles; therefore he becometh a great benefit to
 his fellow beings.
 
 Mosiah 8:19
  19 And now, when Ammon had made an end of speaking these words
 the king rejoiced exceedingly, and gave thanks to God, saying:
 Doubtless a great mystery is contained within these plates, and
 these interpreters were doubtless prepared for the purpose of
 unfolding all such mysteries to the children of men.
 
 Mosiah 8:20
  20 O how marvelous are the works of the Lord, and how long doth
 he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind and impenetrable
 are the understandings of the children of men; for they will not
 seek wisdom, neither do they desire that she should rule over
 them!
 
 Mosiah 8:21
  21 Yea, they are as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd,
 and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the beasts of
 the forest.
 
 Mosiah 9
 Chapter 9
 
 Mosiah 9:1
  1 I, Zeniff, having been taught in all the language of the
 Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the land of Nephi, or of
 the land of our fathers' first inheritance, and having been sent
 as a spy among the Lamanites that I might spy out their forces,
 that our army might come upon them and destroy them--but when I
 saw that which was good among them I was desirous that they
 should not be destroyed.
 
 Mosiah 9:2
  2 Therefore, I contended with my brethren in the wilderness for
 I would that our ruler should make a treaty with them; but he
 being an austere and a bloodthirsty man commanded that I should
 be slain; but I was rescued by the shedding of much blood; for
 father fought against father, and brother against brother, until
 the greater number of our army was destroyed in the wilderness;
 and we returned, those of us that were spared, to the land of
 Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives and their children.
 
 Mosiah 9:3
  3 And yet, I being over-zealous to inherit the land of our
 fathers, collected as many as were desirous to go up to possess
 the land, and started again on our journey into the wilderness to
 go up to the land; but we were smitten with famine and sore
 afflictions; for we were slow to remember the Lord our God.
 
 Mosiah 9:4
  4 Nevertheless, after many days' wandering in the wilderness we
 pitched our tents in the place where our brethren were slain,
 which was near to the land of our fathers.
 
 Mosiah 9:5
  5 And it came to pass that I went again with four of my men into
 the city, in unto the king, that I might know of the disposition
 of the king, and that I might know if I might go in with my
 people and possess the land in peace.
 
 Mosiah 9:6
  6 And I went in unto the king, and he covenanted with me that I
 might possess the land of Lehi-Nephi, and the land of Shilom.
 
 Mosiah 9:7
  7 And he also commanded that his people should depart out of the
 land, and I and my people went into the land that we might
 possess it.
 
 Mosiah 9:8
  8 And we began to build buildings, and to repair the walls of
 the city, yea, even the walls of the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the
 city of Shilom.
 
 Mosiah 9:9
  9 And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all manner of
 seeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and of barley, and with
 neas, and with sheum, and with seeds of all manner of fruits; and
 we did begin to multiply and prosper in the land.
 
 Mosiah 9:10
  10 Now it was the cunning and the craftiness of king Laman, to
 bring my people into bondage, that he yielded up the land that we
 might possess it.
 
 Mosiah 9:11
  11 Therefore it came to pass, that after we had dwelt in the
 land for the space of twelve years that king Laman began to grow
 uneasy, lest by any means my people should wax strong in the
 land, and that they could not overpower them and bring them into
 bondage.
 
 Mosiah 9:12
  12 Now they were a lazy and an idolatrous people; therefore they
 were desirous to bring us into bondage, that they might glut
 themselves with the labors of our hands; yea, that they might
 feast themselves upon the flocks of our fields.
 
 Mosiah 9:13
  13 Therefore it came to pass that king Laman began to stir up
 his people that they should contend with my people; therefore
 there began to be wars and contentions in the land.
 
 Mosiah 9:14
  14 For, in the thirteenth year of my reign in the land of Nephi,
 away on the south of the land of Shilom, when my people were
 watering and feeding their flocks, and tilling their lands, a
 numerous host of Lamanites came upon them and began to slay them,
 and to take off their flocks, and the corn of their fields.
 
 Mosiah 9:15
  15 Yea, and it came to pass that they fled, all that were not
 overtaken, even into the city of Nephi, and did call upon me for
 protection.
 
 Mosiah 9:16
  16 And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows, and with
 arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and with clubs, and with
 slings, and with all manner of weapons which we could invent, and
 I and my people did go forth against the Lamanites to battle.
 
 Mosiah 9:17
  17 Yea, in the strength of the Lord did we go forth to battle
 against the Lamanites; for I and my people did cry mightily to
 the Lord that he would deliver us out of the hands of our
 enemies, for we were awakened to a remembrance of the deliverance
 of our fathers.
 
 Mosiah 9:18
  18 And God did hear our cries and did answer our prayers; and we
 did go forth in his might; yea, we did go forth against the
 Lamanites, and in one day and a night we did slay three thousand
 and forty-three; we did slay them even until we had driven them
 out of our land.
 
 Mosiah 9:19
  19 And I, myself, with mine own hands, did help to bury their
 dead.  And behold, to our great sorrow and lamentation, two
 hundred and seventy-nine of our brethren were slain.
 
 Mosiah 10
 Chapter 10
 
 Mosiah 10:1
  1 And it came to pass that we again began to establish the
 kingdom and we again began to possess the land in peace.  And I
 caused that there should be weapons of war made of every kind,
 that thereby I might have weapons for my people against the time
 the Lamanites should come up again to war against my people.
 
 Mosiah 10:2
  2 And I set guards round about the land, that the Lamanites
 might not come upon us again unawares and destroy us; and thus I
 did guard my people and my flocks, and keep them from falling
 into the hands of our enemies.
 
 Mosiah 10:3
  3 And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our
 fathers for many years, yea, for the space of twenty and two
 years.
 
 Mosiah 10:4
  4 And I did cause that the men should till the ground, and raise
 all manner of grain and all manner of fruit of every kind.
 
 Mosiah 10:5
  5 And I did cause that the women should spin, and toil, and
 work, and work all manner of fine linen, yea, and cloth of every
 kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and thus we did prosper
 in the land--thus we did have continual peace in the land for the
 space of twenty and two years.
 
 Mosiah 10:6
  6 And it came to pass that king Laman died, and his son began to
 reign in his stead.  And he began to stir his people up in
 rebellion against my people; therefore they began to prepare for
 war, and to come up to battle against my people.
 
 Mosiah 10:7
  7 But I had sent my spies out round about the land of Shemlon,
 that I might discover their preparations, that I might guard
 against them, that they might not come upon my people and destroy
 them.
 
 Mosiah 10:8
  8 And it came to pass that they came up upon the north of the
 land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men armed with bows,
 and with arrows, and with swords, and with cimeters, and with
 stones, and with slings; and they had their heads shaved that
 they were naked; and they were girded with a leathern girdle
 about their loins.
 
 Mosiah 10:9
  9 And it came to pass that I caused that the women and children
 of my people should be hid in the wilderness; and I also caused
 that all my old men that could bear arms, and also all my young
 men that were able to bear arms, should gather themselves
 together to go to battle against the Lamanites; and I did place
 them in their ranks, every man according to his age.
 
 Mosiah 10:10
  10 And it came to pass that we did go up to battle against the
 Lamanites; and I, even I, in my old age, did go up to battle
 against the Lamanites.  And it came to pass that we did go up in
 the strength of the Lord to battle.
 
 Mosiah 10:11
  11 Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, nor the
 strength of the Lord, therefore they depended upon their own
 strength.  Yet they were a strong people, as to the strength of
 men.
 
 Mosiah 10:12
  12 They were a wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty people,
 believing in the tradition of their fathers, which is
 this--Believing that they were driven out of the land of
 Jerusalem because of the iniquities of their fathers, and that
 they were wronged in the wilderness by their brethren, and they
 were also wronged while crossing the sea;
 
 Mosiah 10:13
  13 And again, that they were wronged while in the land of their
 first inheritance, after they had crossed the sea, and all this
 because that Nephi was more faithful in keeping the commandments
 of the Lord--therefore he was favored of the Lord, for the Lord
 heard his prayers and answered them, and he took the lead of
 their journey in the wilderness.
 
 Mosiah 10:14
  14 And his brethren were wroth with him because they understood
 not the dealings of the Lord; they were also wroth with him upon
 the waters because they hardened their hearts against the Lord.
 
 Mosiah 10:15
  15 And again, they were wroth with him when they had arrived in
 the promised land, because they said that he had taken the ruling
 of the people out of their hands; and they sought to kill him.
 
 Mosiah 10:16
  16 And again, they were wroth with him because he departed into
 the wilderness as the Lord had commanded him, and took the
 records which were engraven on the plates of brass, for they said
 that he robbed them.
 
 Mosiah 10:17
  17 And thus they have taught their children that they should
 hate them, and that they should murder them, and that they should
 rob and plunder them, and do all they could to destroy them;
 therefore they have an eternal hatred towards the children of
 Nephi.
 
 Mosiah 10:18
  18 For this very cause has king Laman, by his cunning, and lying
 craftiness, and his fair promises, deceived me, that I have
 brought this my people up into this land, that they may destroy
 them; yea, and we have suffered these many years in the land.
 
 Mosiah 10:19
  19 And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my
 people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go to
 battle with their might, putting their trust in the Lord;
 therefore, we did contend with them, face to face.
 
 Mosiah 10:20
  20 And it came to pass that we did drive them again out of our
 land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even so many that
 we did not number them.
 
 Mosiah 10:21
  21 And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land,
 and my people again began to tend their flocks, and to till their
 ground.
 
 Mosiah 10:22
  22 And now I, being old, did confer the kingdom upon one of my
 sons; therefore, I say no more.  And may the Lord bless my
 people.  Amen.
 
 Mosiah 11
 Chapter 11
 
 Mosiah 11:1
  1 And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the kingdom upon
 Noah, one of his sons; therefore Noah began to reign in his
 stead; and he did not walk in the ways of his father.
 
 Mosiah 11:2
  2 For behold, he did not keep the commandments of God, but he
 did walk after the desires of his own heart.  And he had many
 wives and concubines.  And he did cause his people to commit sin,
 and do that which was abominable in the sight of the Lord.  Yea,
 and they did commit whoredoms and all manner of wickedness.
 
 Mosiah 11:3
  3 And he laid a tax of one fifth part of all they possessed, a
 fifth part of their gold and of their silver, and a fifth part of
 their ziff, and of their copper, and of their brass and their
 iron; and a fifth part of their fatlings; and also a fifth part
 of all their grain.
 
 Mosiah 11:4
  4 And all this did he take to support himself, and his wives and
 his concubines; and also his priests, and their wives and their
 concubines; thus he had changed the affairs of the kingdom.
 
 Mosiah 11:5
  5 For he put down all the priests that had been consecrated by
 his father, and consecrated new ones in their stead, such as were
 lifted up in the pride of their hearts.
 
 Mosiah 11:6
  6 Yea, and thus they were supported in their laziness, and in
 their idolatry, and in their whoredoms, by the taxes which king
 Noah had put upon his people; thus did the people labor
 exceedingly to support iniquity.
 
 Mosiah 11:7
  7 Yea, and they also became idolatrous, because they were
 deceived by the vain and flattering words of the king and
 priests; for they did speak flattering things unto them.
 
 Mosiah 11:8
  8 And it came to pass that king Noah built many elegant and
 spacious buildings; and he ornamented them with fine work of
 wood, and of all manner of precious things, of gold, and of
 silver, and of iron, and of brass, and of ziff, and of copper;
 
 Mosiah 11:9
  9 And he also built him a spacious palace, and a throne in the
 midst thereof, all of which was of fine wood and was ornamented
 with gold and silver and with precious things.
 
 Mosiah 11:10
  10 And he also caused that his workmen should work all manner of
 fine work within the walls of the temple, of fine wood, and of
 copper, and of brass.
 
 Mosiah 11:11
  11 Y los asientos que se separaron para los sumos sacerdotes,

Que estaban por encima de todos los otros asientos, adorn con puro

Oro; e hizo que se construyera un pecho ante ellos, que

Podran descansar sus cuerpos y sus brazos mientras

Debera decir palabras mentirosas y vanas a su pueblo.

